The image to the left here is generated by midjourney, but this article is about (chat)GPT and how I've become so much more productive thanks to it already.

## I've used GPT for:
1. Thinking through a project idea. I wasn't excited about my work project, but GPT took away the boring stuff. Consider:
	1. Competition research / SWOT analysis
	2. Consider the risks and challenges of scaling this specific project
	3. Defining a mission statement on the learnings thus far
	4. Making job descriptions for hiring the right people

ChatGPT does some amazing 'boring work', perhaps even 80% of it. I'm fascinated!

2. Designing a garden based on research done by GPT4
	1. Using that input for a mid-journey prompt
	2. Finetuning and being amazed by the amount of creative _input_ these models generate
3. Thinking through a data structure for a table, I wanted to create and give relevant and usable input to improve. I can only imagine what it can do for database normalisation or API designs.
4. Lots and lots of code samples for javascript, python, CSS, HTML, you name it. Even putting it together in one!
	1. Most recently, using GPT as a 'code assistant' to validate and simplify some complex functions in node-red.
5. Figuring out how to extract text from a PDF using a Python script (without former Python knowledge)
6. Learning new terminal commands for my Ubuntu VMs
	1. Finding the largest file in a folder 
	   ```bash 
	   find / -type f -exec du -Sh {} + | sort -rh | head -n 1
	   ```
	2. Echoing text into a file (GPT also gave me the options to append or overwrite!)
	   ```bash
	   echo "This text will be added to the end of the file." >> filename.txt
	   ```
	3. a CURL request with a POST body
	   ```bash
	  curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d
	   '{"text":"Hello, world!"}' http://basic:auth@domain/gpt3/
	  ```
7. Taking a press release and making it my own -> I wanted to experiment a bit more with GPT and took a random press release:
	1. translated it to English (from Dutch)
	2. made an executive summary
	3. turned it into a haiku
	4. rewrote it from the perspective of a consultant
8. Of course doing social media posts for my blog based on the contents in it. This probably will be the _death_ of social media (again).
9. Comparing a job offer to the demands I have of a job -- I'm not _looking_ for a new job, but being on top of market demands, and managing your network and connections is all part of the deal these days (in my opinion)
10. Generating a test in CypressJS (my first task)
11. Using chatGPT to read, summarize and enhance my texts based on the knowledge it contains. Being a true 'assistant'
12. Preparing myself for meetings by letting chatGPT challenge my assumptions and agenda

### What did I stop doing?
1. Google.
2. Being annoyed by stack overflow
3. Spending energy on seeing (or blocking) ads
4. not _hoping_ code works that I copied from stack overflow, but _knowing why_ it works.
5. data entry, analysis and research

### What did I learn?

That it's not rocket science, it's not insane. It _is_ understandable, manageable, and simple. And that's what is accelerating this. There is acceptance for the 'bot' part (thank Siri/alexa for that). ~~There finally _is_ a _better_ Google.~~

No, scratch that. Ignore that it might be Google. Accept that it is an assistant. An entity that helps you to learn to become a better (coder/writer/researcher/creative). It is biased, and be aware of that, but it will make your work _better_.

### Who owns my content?
The dicision is not (yet) out, but there is some ideas about where the rights lie.

In short, _you_ own the input, _they_ own the output.

* https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/chatgpt-who-owns-the-content-generated-2891692/

### The small letters
There is a fear that the data we enter into any kind of learning model will be used to improve the model itself. I don't have anything against that in particular, but if you don't want that to happen – make sure you fill out the following form(s):

- [OpenAI Data Opt Out Request (ChatGPT, DALL-E)](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScrnC-_A7JFs4LbIuzevQ_78hVERlNqqCPCt3d8XqnKOfdRdQ/viewform)